Improvements to "Enable Terraform access for your Okta org" article (#4811)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/terraform-enable-org-access/main/index.md

## Overview

Terraform is a tool that allows admins to automate your Okta org. Terraform requires an appropriate level of access to make changes to your org. You provide that access with an Okta API service app, which is the app type required for machine-to-machine communication.

An Okta API service app uses the OAuth 2.0 [Client Credentials authorization flow](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta-serviceapp/main/) to authorize Terraform. You create a public/private key pair as the client credentials for this flow. Okta stores the public key, and Terraform uses the private key in the configuration for access to your org.

> In the Okta API service app tat controls your Terraform integration, you specify the Okta objects that Terraform can access using API scopes, which are like permissions to do a certain action on a type of resource. For example, the Terraform configuration in this article creates a test group in Okta, which requires the `okta.groups.manage` API scope. Just as a person would need the `groups.manage` scope on their account to manage groups, the API service app that controls your Terraform integration needs to be granted the `groups.manage` API scope in the Admin Console. That scope must also be listed in your Terraform provider setup as a list of scopes that the Terraform provider requests during setup.

Author: ```suggestion
In the Okta API service app that controls your Terraform integration, you specify the Okta objects that Terraform can access using API scopes. Scopes are like permissions to do a certain action on a type of resource. For example, the Terraform configuration in this article creates a test group in Okta, which requires the `okta.groups.manage` API scope.

One way to determine the required scopes for the service app is to consider which ones an admin needs to perform the same kind of action. Next, find the corresponding scopes in the list of [OAuth Admin Management scopes](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/oauth2/#okta-admin-management) and add them to your service app. For example, adding a group in the Okta Admin console requires the `groups.manage`. In the table, the corresponding scope is `okta.groups.manage`.

You'll also add any required scopes to your Terraform configuration.
```

Separate from granting API scopes, you must assign admin permissions to the app through groups of permissions called admin roles.

> **Note:** See [Control Terraform access to Okta](/docs/guides/terraform-design-access-security).

> ## Create an API service app to manage your Terraform access

Author: ```suggestion
## Create an API service app to manage Terraform access
```

Create an Okta service app that authorizes Terraform to make changes to your org:

1. In the Admin Console, select **Applications** > **Applications**.
1. Click **Create App Integration**, and then select **API Services**.
1. Click **Next**.
1. Enter a name for the app, and then click **Save**.
1. Click on your application in the list.

> ## Assign admin roles, which are groups of admin permissions

Author: ```suggestion
## Assign admin roles
```

As you expand your own Terraform code to control more resource types, you might need to assign your API service application more permissions or roles to do the new types of tasks. The example in this article for initial testing creates an Okta group using Terraform. To run this example code, add the `Organization Administrator` admin role to your API service app. To manage other Terraform resource types, your app might need additional roles. 

For a list of admin permissions and which built-in roles include them, see [the admin role and permission comparison page](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-administrators-admin-comparison).

Use a built-in admin role to assign permissions:

1. In the Admin Console, open the service app and select **Admin roles**.
1. Click **Edit assignments**.
1. Click **Add assignment**.
1. In the **Complete the assignment** section, for **Role** select **Organization Administrator*** or  **Superuser Admin**. 
1. Click **Save Changes**.

For more information on custom roles, see [Custom admin roles](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-cstm-admin-roles).

> Admin roles are separate from API scopes, which are discussed in the following section. To manage resources in Terraform, you need to assign admin roles and also grant API scopes to the application.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> ## Use Admin Console to grant API scopes to the API service app

Author: ```suggestion
## Grant API scopes
```

> Separate from the admin roles discussed in the previous section, Okta has a concept of _API scopes_ that define permissions for an external API client like Terraform. These are sometimes referred to simply as _scopes_. Determine which Okta resources and which operations you need from Terraform, and use the names of the scopes to match which resources and actions you need. The name of the scope indicates the resouce type and level of access. For a full reference, see [the Okta list of Auth 2.0 API scopes](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/oauth2/). The example Terraform code used in this article requires only the `okta.groups.manage` scope to create a group, but other resource types require other scopes.

Author: ```suggestion
Okta _API scopes_ define permissions for an external API client like Terraform. For a full reference, see [the Okta list of Auth 2.0 API scopes](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/oauth2/).
```

> > **Note:** Only admin users with the Super Administrator role have the permission to grant new API scopes to a service app.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Granting new API scopes to a service app requires that the admin has Super Administrator permission.
```

1. Open the Okta API service app that you created in the previous section.

> 1. Click **Okta API Scopes**.

Author: it's just one of the main tabs

<img width="737" alt="image" src="https://github.com/okta/okta-developer-docs/assets/168501428/02a79257-12ba-4fd8-a80b-dffaceeff406">

I'll add tab, but it seems over the top to say "in the center of the page"  or something like that? Is there a standard way of referring to the tabs?

```suggestion
1. Click the **Okta API Scopes** tab.
```

> 1. Find the desired scope. Using our example, find `okta.groups.manage`. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Find the desired scope. For this example, find `okta.groups.manage`. 
```

> 1. Next to that item, click **Grant**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click **Grant** for the desired scope.
```

1. For some scopes, Okta requests confirmation. To confirm, click **Grant Scope**.

> To add other API scopes, repeat these steps with other scopes.

Author: ```suggestion
Repeat these steps for any other desired API scopes.
```

> > **Important**: when you add other resource types to your Terraform configuration, you must make several changes. Grant the new API scopes to the app. Modify your Terraform provider setup to request the new API scopes. Depending on your existing setup, you may need to add more admin roles to the app, see earlier in this article for details.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Important**: When you add other resource types to your Terraform configuration, you must make several changes. Grant the new API scopes to the app. Modify your Terraform provider setup to request the new API scopes. Depending on your existing setup, you may need to add more admin roles to the app. For more information, see [Assign admin roles](#assign-admin-roles).
```

## Create access credentials

> Okta recommends using a public/private key pair for credentials to control access from Terraform to Okta. Store the public key in the API service app, and use the private key in your Terraform configuration. You can use Okta to generate the public/private key pair or use an external tool to create the key pair.

Author: ```suggestion
Okta recommends using a public/private key pair for credentials to control access from Terraform to Okta. Store the public key in the API service app, and use the private key in your Terraform configuration. You can use Okta to generate the public/private key pair or use an external tool to create the key pair.
```
```suggestion
Use a public/private key pair to control access to the service app used by Terraform. Store the public key in the API service app, and use the private key in your Terraform configuration. You can use Okta to generate the public/private key pair or use an external tool to create the key pair.
```

> > **Important:** Key pair authentication is the most secure option. Use other options such as API tokens only when the tradeoff of decreased security is worth it to you.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Important:** Choose an access method based on the level of security required for your service app.
```

> ### Use Okta to generate the public/private key pair

Author: ```suggestion
### Use Okta to generate the keys
```

1. In the Admin Console, open the service app and select **General**.
1. In the **Client Credentials** section, click **Edit** to change the client authentication method.
1. Select **Public key / Private key** as the **Client authentication** method.
1. Click **Add key**.
1. In the Add a public key dialog, click **Generate new key**.
1. In the **Private key** section, click **PEM** to show the PEM format (not JSON) format of the private key.
1. Copy the PEM private key and save it as a `.key` file.
   > **Important:** The private key appears in this dialog only once. Losing the private key requires generating a new pair of keys.
1. Save your new key: click **Done**, **Save**, and then **Save** again.
1. If you created multiple keys in this application, set the status of any public key currently used by Terraform to **Active**. Set the status of the other public keys to **Inactive**.  
1. For a production deployment, securely store the private key in a Terraform secrets management system or other key management system.

> ### Use an external tool to generate the public/private key pair

Author: ```suggestion
### Use an external tool to generate the keys
```

1. Audit your external tool to generate a key pair for security. Follow organization best practices and audit any code beforehand to maintain org security. Never use an untrusted third-party web site to generate keys for production systems.

> 1. Check that the generated private key is in PKCS#1 format, which is the format required by the Okta Terraform provider. In that format, the file that contains the private key begins with `-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----`. If the key isn't in the right format, convert it to the correct format using the OpenSSL command line program:

Reviewer: This is important, but is this a step or is it a paragraph that introduces a step? I think it's the latter.

Author: ```suggestion

Check that the generated private key is in PKCS#1 format, which is the format required by the Okta Terraform provider. In that format, the file that contains the private key begins with `-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----`. If the key isn't in the right format, convert it to the correct format using the OpenSSL command line program:
```

1. In a terminal, go to the file path where you saved the original private key.
1. Run OpenSSL to convert the key. One of the following command lines should work depending on your operating system and version of OpenSSL:
   `openssl rsa -in {ORIGINAL_PRIVATE_KEY} -out {CONVERTED_PRIVATE_KEY} -traditional`
   `openssl rsa -in {ORIGINAL_PRIVATE_KEY} -out {CONVERTED_PRIVATE_KEY}`
   `openssl-rsa -in {ORIGINAL_PRIVATE_KEY} -out {CONVERTED_PRIVATE_KEY}`

   In this command:
   * `ORIGINAL_PRIVATE_KEY`: Set this to the file path of the original key.
   * `CONVERTED_PRIVATE_KEY`: Set this to the file path for the converted key.
1. Confirm the converted key begins with `-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----`. If not, try these steps again.

> 1. Save the converted private key locally to somewhere on your system that you can reference it from Terraform. By convention, save the file with a file name ending in `.pem`. 

Reviewer: This point could be a bit easier to read... perhaps:
"Save the converted private key file. By convention, the file extension for a private key file is `.pem`.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Save the converted private key file. By convention, the file extension for a private key file is `.pem`. 
```

Separate from granting API scopes, you must assign admin permissions to the app through groups of permissions called admin roles.

> **Note:** See [Control Terraform access to Okta](/docs/guides/terraform-design-access-security).

## Create an API service app to manage your Terraform access

Create an Okta service app that authorizes Terraform to make changes to your org:

1. In the Admin Console, select **Applications** > **Applications**.
1. Click **Create App Integration**, and then select **API Services**.
1. Click **Next**.
1. Enter a name for the app, and then click **Save**.
1. Click on your application in the list.

> 1. In the **General** tab, check if the option **Require Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP) header in token requests** is selected. If it's selected, _unselect it_ and click **Save**. 
> 
>    > **Note:** The Okta Terraform provider does not support DPoP. Starting in February 2024, some new orgs have it enabled by default.

Author: REMOVING THIS , DPOP ISSUE WILL BE FIXED...

```suggestion
```

CC: @mauricesharp-okta

1. Click on your application in the list.

## Assign admin roles

To use the Okta Terraform provider, you must update your Okta API service app to enable some admin permissions that correspond to the resources and actions you will manage in Terraform. Some admin permissions apply to the whole organization. Some admin permissions can be assigned to specific users and groups.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
The example in this article for initial testing creates an Okta group using Terraform. To run this example code, add the `Organization Administrator` admin role to your API service app.

```

You'll also add any required scopes to your Terraform configuration.

Separate from granting API scopes, you must assign admin permissions to the app through groups of permissions called admin roles.

> **Note:** See [Control Terraform access to Okta](/docs/guides/terraform-design-access-security).

## Create an API service app to manage Terraform access

Create an Okta service app that authorizes Terraform to make changes to your org:

1. In the Admin Console, select **Applications** > **Applications**.
1. Click **Create App Integration**, and then select **API Services**.
1. Click **Next**.
1. Enter a name for the app, and then click **Save**.
1. Click on your application in the list.

## Assign admin roles

To use the Okta Terraform provider, you must update your Okta API service app to enable some admin permissions that correspond to the resources and actions you will manage in Terraform. Some admin permissions apply to the whole organization. Some admin permissions can be assigned to specific users and groups.

> The example in this article for initial testing creates an Okta group using Terraform. To run this example code, add the `Organization Administrator` admin role to your API service app.

Author: ```suggestion

The example in this article for initial testing creates an Okta group using Terraform. To run this example code, add the `Organization Administrator` admin role to your API service app.
```

### Use Okta to generate the keys

1. In the Admin Console, open the service app and select **General**.
1. In the **Client Credentials** section, click **Edit** to change the client authentication method.
1. Select **Public key / Private key** as the **Client authentication** method.
1. Click **Add key**.
1. In the Add a public key dialog, click **Generate new key**.
1. In the **Private key** section, click **PEM** to show the PEM format (not JSON) format of the private key.
1. Copy the PEM private key and save it as a `.key` file.
   > **Important:** The private key appears in this dialog only once. Losing the private key requires generating a new key pair.
1. Save your new key: click **Done**, **Save**, and then **Save** again.
1. If you created multiple keys in this application, set the status of any public key currently used by Terraform to **Active**. Set the status of the other public keys to **Inactive**.  
1. For a production deployment, securely store the private key in a Terraform secrets management system or other key management system.

### Use an external tool to generate the keys

> 1. Audit your external tool to generate a key pair for security. Follow organization best practices and audit any code beforehand to maintain org security. Never use an untrusted third-party web site to generate keys for production systems.

Author: ```suggestion
Audit your external tool to generate a key pair for security. Follow organization best practices and audit any code beforehand to maintain org security. Never use an untrusted third-party web site to generate keys for production systems.
```

1. In a terminal, go to the file path where you saved the original private key.
1. Run OpenSSL to convert the key. One of the following command lines should work depending on your operating system and version of OpenSSL:
   `openssl rsa -in {ORIGINAL_PRIVATE_KEY} -out {CONVERTED_PRIVATE_KEY} -traditional`
   `openssl rsa -in {ORIGINAL_PRIVATE_KEY} -out {CONVERTED_PRIVATE_KEY}`
   `openssl-rsa -in {ORIGINAL_PRIVATE_KEY} -out {CONVERTED_PRIVATE_KEY}`

   In this command:
   * `ORIGINAL_PRIVATE_KEY`: Set this to the file path of the original key.
   * `CONVERTED_PRIVATE_KEY`: Set this to the file path for the converted key.
1. Confirm the converted key begins with `-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----`. If not, try these steps again.
1. Save the converted private key file. By convention, the file extension for a private key file is `.pem`. 
1. For a production deployment, securely store the private key in a Terraform secrets management system or other key management system.

Add an externally-created key to Okta:

> 1. In the Admin Console, open your service app and select **General**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. In the Admin Console, open your service app and select the **General** tab.
```

   * `org_name`: Your Okta org name, which is the first part of your organization's Okta domain before `.okta.com`, `.oktapreview.com`, or `.okta-emea.com`. For example, if your Okta domain is `example-org.oktapreview.com`, the org name is `example-org`. Don't include the `-admin` suffix, which corresponds to your Admin Console URL. To confirm your Okta domain in the Admin Console, click your username in the upper-right corner and look for the text below your email address. An Okta Developer org has an org name with the form `dev-<number>`, such as `dev-000001`.
   * `base_url`: Your Okta org domain. This is the end part of your domain URL: `.okta.com`, `.oktapreview.com`, or `.okta-emea.com`.
   * `client_id`: The client ID of the API service app that you created. In the Admin Console, click **Applications**, then click the name of your API service app. In the app editor, click **General**. Under **Client Credentials**, copy the **Client ID** value.
   * `private_key`: Either the path to the private key file or the private key itself. Okta recommends storing the key in a separate location and using a secrets and encryption management system, such as HashiCorp Vault.

>    * `scopes`: A list of API scopes that your Terraform code requests. This example creates a group, which requires the `okta.groups.manage` scope. 

Reviewer: The definition reads passive voice... perhaps "The list of API scopes required by your Terraform configuration. The example below creates a group, which..."

Author: ```suggestion
   * `scopes`: The list of API scopes required by your Terraform configuration. The example below creates a group, which requires the `okta.groups.manage` scope. 
```

>      > Note: Also you must grant these API scopes to the API service application in the Admin Console. When viewing your app, click the **API Scopes** tab, find the scope in the list,  and click **Grant** next to it.

Reviewer: >**Note:** Grant the same API scopes to the service app you created for Terraform. In the Admin Console view your app, click the **API Scopes** tab, and grant the desired scopes from the list.

Author: ```suggestion
     > Note: Grant the same API scopes to the service app you created for Terraform. In the Admin Console view your app, click the **API Scopes** tab, and grant the desired scopes from the list.
```
